feat (DOCS-CODE-007): [client-credential-flow] .NET (C#) web API (#22)
Azure-Samples/ms-identity-docs-code-dotnet: src/msal-client-credentials-flow/README.md

products:
- azure
- azure-active-directory
- ms-graph
urlFragment: ms-identity-docs-code-app-csharp-webapi
---
-->

<!-- SAMPLE ID: DOCS-CODE-009-->
# ASP.NET Core minimal web API | Web API | Web API that accesses a protected web API (Microsoft Graph) | Microsoft identity platform

<!-- Build badges here
![Build passing.](https://img.shields.io/badge/build-passing-brightgreen.svg) ![Code coverage.](https://img.shields.io/badge/coverage-100%25-brightgreen.svg) ![License.](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-green.svg)
-->

This ASP.NET Core minimal web API issues a call to a protected web API (Microsoft Graph) by using the OAuth 2.0 client credentials flow. The request to the Microsoft Graph endpoint is issued using the ASP.NET Core minimal web API's own identity.

```console
$ curl https://localhost:5001/api/application
{
   "@odata.context": "https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/$metadata#applications/$entity",
   "id": "537a552c-58b7-4468-abdf-a7cbfa000dde",
   "deletedDateTime": null,

>    "appId": "5b2c581d-e3ac-415e-a770-7f16254fdbf7",

Reviewer: Have you been munging these IDs, by chance? I suspect you're deleting the apps as you go, but thought I'd check just in case.

Not strictly necessary before merge, but we'll need to add _Munge app IDs_ to the post-production list if you've not been doing so as a matter of course. (Cc: @Dickson-Mwendia)

Author: neither munging or deleting apps immediately but just occasionally. But yes Im planning to purge all these apps from my tenant in the near future.

Reviewer 2: For what it's worth @mmacy, all of the GUIDs that are in the samples or screenshots that I put together are all fake.

| **Name**                          | `active-directory-dotnet-minimal-api-aspnetcore-client-credentail-flow`      | Suggested value for this sample. <br/> You can change the app name at any time.                    |
| **Supported account types**       | **Accounts in this organizational directory only (Single tenant)**           | Suggested value for this sample.                                                                   |
| **Platform type**                 | _None_                                                                       | No redirect URI required; don't select a platform.                                                                    |
| **Client secret**                 | _**Value** of the client secret (not its ID)_                                | :warning: Record this value immediately! <br/> It's shown only _once_ (when you create it).        |

> :information_source: **Bold text** in the tables above matches (or is similar to) a UI element in the Azure portal, while `code formatting` indicates a value you enter into a text box in the Azure portal.

### 2. Configure the web API

> 1. Open the _~/msal-client-credentials-flow/appsettings.json_ file in your code editor and modify the following values values with those from your [app's registration in the Azure portal](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/quickstart-configure-app-expose-web-apis):

Reviewer: Is this URL correct? Shouldn't this point to the Azure portal, not the "Expose an API" quickstart? We didn't expose the API, did we?

Related question: No App ID URI needed since we're not exposing and perms via scopes?

Author: I think the following resource will do a bit better:

```suggestion
1. Open the _~/msal-client-credentials-flow/appsettings.json_ file in your code editor and modify the following values values with those from your [app's registration in the Azure portal](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/quickstart-register-app#register-an-application):
```

Reviewer: Yup, that works - that's the one they will have seen if they followed the README steps.

> 1. Open the _~/msal-client-credentials-flow/appsettings.json_ file in your code editor and modify the following values values with those from your [app's registration in the Azure portal](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/quickstart-register-app#register-an-application):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open the _~/msal-client-credentials-flow/appsettings.json_ file in your code editor and modify the following values values with those from your [app's registration in the Azure portal](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/quickstart-register-app#register-an-application):
```

   ```json
   "ClientId": "Enter_the_Application_Id_here",
   "TenantId": "Enter_the_Tenant_Info_Here",
   "ClientSecret": "Enter_the_Application_CLient_Secret_Here"
   ...
   "RelativePath": "Enter_the_Application_Object_Id_Here",
   ```

## Run the application

### 1. Run the web API

> 1. Execute the following command to get the app up and running:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Execute the following command to get the app up and running:
```

   ```bash
   dotnet run
   ```

### 2. Send request to the web API

> 1. Once the app is listening, execute the following to send the a request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Once the app is running and listening for requests, execute the following command to send it a request.
```

> 1. Once the app is running and listening for requests, execute the following command to send it a request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the app is running and listening for requests, execute the following command to send it a request.
```

   ```

   If everything worked, you should receive a response from the downstream web API (Microsoft Graph, in this case) similar to this:

   ```console
   $ curl https://localhost:5001/api/application -ki
   {
      "@odata.context": "https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/$metadata#applications/$entity",
      "id": "537a552c-58b7-4468-abdf-a7cbfa000dde",
      "deletedDateTime": null,
      "appId": "5b2c581d-e3ac-415e-a770-7f16254fdbf7",
      "applicationTemplateId": null,
      "disabledByMicrosoftStatus": null,
      "createdDateTime": "2022-02-23T21:35:20Z",
      "displayName": "active-directory-dotnet-minimal-api-aspnetcore-client-credentail-flow",
      "description": null,
      "groupMembershipClaims": null,
      "identifierUris": [],
      "isDeviceOnlyAuthSupported": null,
      "isFallbackPublicClient": null,
      "notes": null,
      "publisherDomain": "contoso.onmicrosoft.com",
      "serviceManagementReference": null,
      "signInAudience": "AzureADMyOrg",
      "tags": [],
      "tokenEncryptionKeyId": null,
      "defaultRedirectUri": null,
      "certification": null,
      "optionalClaims": null,
      ...
   }

>    ```

Reviewer: ~~~suggestion

```bash
curl -X GET https://localhost:5001/api/application -ki
```

If everything worked, you should receive a response from the downstream web API (Microsoft Graph, in this case) similar to this:

```console
$ curl https://localhost:5001/api/application -ki
{
   "@odata.context": "https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/$metadata#applications/$entity",
   "id": "537a552c-58b7-4468-abdf-a7cbfa000dde",
   "deletedDateTime": null,
   "appId": "5b2c581d-e3ac-415e-a770-7f16254fdbf7",
   "applicationTemplateId": null,
   "disabledByMicrosoftStatus": null,
   "createdDateTime": "2022-02-23T21:35:20Z",
   "displayName": "active-directory-dotnet-minimal-api-aspnetcore-client-credentail-flow",
   "description": null,
   "groupMembershipClaims": null,
   "identifierUris": [],
   "isDeviceOnlyAuthSupported": null,
   "isFallbackPublicClient": null,
   "notes": null,
   "publisherDomain": "contoso.onmicrosoft.com",
   "serviceManagementReference": null,
   "signInAudience": "AzureADMyOrg",
   "tags": [],
   "tokenEncryptionKeyId": null,
   "defaultRedirectUri": null,
   "certification": null,
   "optionalClaims": null,
   ...
}
```
~~~

No longer need indentation since it's not in an ordered list.

## About the code

This ASP.NET Core minimal web API has a single route (_/application_) that supports anonymous access.  When the anonymous route is called, the API requests its own application object from Microsoft Graph.

> The Microsoft Graph response data is included in its response back to the original caller. This web API uses [Microsoft Authentication Library (MSAL)](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-dotnet).

Reviewer: Please disambiguate "its" and "original caller** in this sentence by stating exactly who is sending the response and exactly who the "original" caller is in this scenario:

> The Microsoft Graph response data is included in **its** response back to the **original caller**.

Author: ```suggestion
The Microsoft Graph response data is included in console app response back to the client making the http request call (original caller). This web API uses [Microsoft Authentication Library (MSAL)](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-dotnet).
```

could you please assist me in here @ckittel with a second pass contrib to calibrate/normalize this a bit more? Im planning to propose this version, otherwise. 

cc/ @skabou

Reviewer 2: How about?

```suggestion
The result from Microsoft Graph is returned as the response of this web API. This web API uses [Microsoft Authentication Library (MSAL)](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-dotnet).
```

<!-- SAMPLE ID: DOCS-CODE-009-->
# ASP.NET Core minimal web API | Web API | Web API that accesses a protected web API (Microsoft Graph) | Microsoft identity platform

<!-- Build badges here
![Build passing.](https://img.shields.io/badge/build-passing-brightgreen.svg) ![Code coverage.](https://img.shields.io/badge/coverage-100%25-brightgreen.svg) ![License.](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-green.svg)
-->

This ASP.NET Core minimal web API issues a call to a protected web API (Microsoft Graph) by using the OAuth 2.0 client credentials flow. The request to the Microsoft Graph endpoint is issued using the ASP.NET Core minimal web API's own identity.

```console
$ curl https://localhost:5001/api/application
{
  "@odata.context": "https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/$metadata#applications/$entity",
  "id": "003c4673-d4a0-4eb6-8979-d6269e08b87e",
  "deletedDateTime": null,
  "appId": "c085fc22-2484-41c0-b795-2e940f51df64",
  "applicationTemplateId": null,
  "disabledByMicrosoftStatus": null,
  "createdDateTime": "2021-12-17T16:45:43Z",
  "displayName": "active-directory-dotnet-minimal-api-aspnetcore-client-credentail-flow",
  "description": null,
  "groupMembershipClaims": null,

>   "identifierUris": ["api://c085fc22-2484-41c0-b795-2e940f51df64"],

Author: thanks for pointing this out @ckittel, copypasta over here.

done | addressed from [9758e](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/ms-identity-docs-code-dotnet/pull/22/commits/9758e6852608076513d86be0d157116f67d1d3c1)

>   "identifierUris": ["api://c085fc22-2484-41c0-b795-2e940f51df64"],

Reviewer 2: Oh, if that's the new output, we'll need to adjust :(  Should just be the body of the graph response like we've done every where else.

>   "identifierUris": ["api://c085fc22-2484-41c0-b795-2e940f51df64"],

Author: you got it @ckittel, too many tutorials on the fly 😸 

done | addressed from [4e82c6](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/ms-identity-docs-code-dotnet/pull/22/commits/4e82c6f7b79ec46d17139a0b387db7ed20218a55)

>   "identifierUris": ["api://c085fc22-2484-41c0-b795-2e940f51df64"],

Reviewer 2: heh,  Can you truncate the output like we do elsewhere?

Example: https://github.com/Azure-Samples/ms-identity-docs-code-javascript/tree/main/msal-client-credentials-flow

@skabou, just noticed the javascript example that I linked to has the same problem that I identified here that started this comment.  Is that something you can tweak quick?

>   "identifierUris": ["api://c085fc22-2484-41c0-b795-2e940f51df64"],

Author: sure thing @ckittel, both are now truncated!

done | addressed from [29236](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/ms-identity-docs-code-dotnet/pull/22/commits/29236de72e8b0dda3c0107c9dd43e21d1870682a)

>   "identifierUris": ["api://c085fc22-2484-41c0-b795-2e940f51df64"],

Reviewer 2: Looks good!  Thanks a bunch.

| **Client secret**                 | _**Value** of the client secret (not its ID)_                                | :warning: Record this value immediately! <br/> It's shown only _once_ (when you create it).        |

> :information_source: **Bold text** in the tables above matches (or is similar to) a UI element in the Azure portal, while `code formatting` indicates a value you enter into a text box in the Azure portal.

### 2. Configure the web API

1. Open the _~/msal-client-credentials-flow/appsettings.json_ file in your code editor and modify the following values values with those from your [app's registration in the Azure portal](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/quickstart-configure-app-expose-web-apis):

   ```json
   "ClientId": "Enter_the_Application_Id_here",
   "TenantId": "Enter_the_Tenant_Info_Here",
   "ClientSecret": "Enter_the_Application_CLient_Secret_Here",
   ...
   "RelativePath": "Enter_the_Application_Object_Id_Here",

>    ...

Reviewer 2: we don't have one at the front of this section, probably don't need one at the rear.

```suggestion
```

Author: I got you @ckittel 

done | addressed from [ce25b](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/ms-identity-docs-code-dotnet/pull/22/commits/ce25bf07305d024c8c37477c55b74b0771b293f9)

Reviewer 2: Ah, you removed them both.  I suppose that's fine.  I liked the middle one so the user knew to "look down further" -- but do you think it'll be okay without that?

Author: you got it @ckittel 

done | address from [76ecb](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/ms-identity-docs-code-dotnet/pull/22/commits/76ecb812d0404227278f08c62fc3144fe9885093)

   ```

## Run the application

### 1. Run the web API

1. Execute the following command to get the app up and running:

   ```bash
   dotnet run
   ```

### 2. Send request to the web API

1. Once the app is listening, execute the following to send the a request.

   ```bash
   curl -X GET https://localhost:5001/application -ki
   ```

>    :information_source: Since the request is sent without a Bearer Token, it is expected to receive an Unauthorized response `401`. The web API is now protected

Reviewer 2: That's not in scope for this scenario, the endpoint can just be anon.

Author: good catch indeed @ckittel dragged it from another scenario I made before.

done | addressed from [ea1ed](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/ms-identity-docs-code-dotnet/pull/22/commits/ea1ed059c9d6236c9939802815224b454416bb86)

Reviewer 2: 🪓

     "deletedDateTime": null,
     "appId": "c085fc22-2484-41c0-b795-2e940f51df64",
     "applicationTemplateId": null,
     "disabledByMicrosoftStatus": null,
     "createdDateTime": "2021-12-17T16:45:43Z",
     "displayName": "active-directory-dotnet-minimal-api-aspnetcore-client-credentail-flow",
     "description": null,
     "groupMembershipClaims": null,
     "identifierUris": ["api://c085fc22-2484-41c0-b795-2e940f51df64"],
     "isDeviceOnlyAuthSupported": null,
     "isFallbackPublicClient": true,
     "notes": null,
     "publisherDomain": "contoso.onmicrosoft.com",
     "serviceManagementReference": null,
     "signInAudience": "AzureADMyOrg",
     "tags": [],
     "tokenEncryptionKeyId": null,
     "defaultRedirectUri": null,
     "certification": null,
     "optionalClaims": null
     ...
   }
   ```

## About the code

This ASP.NET Core minimal web API has a single route (_/application_) that supports anonymous access.  When the anonymous route is called, the API requests its own application object from Microsoft Graph.

The Microsoft Graph response data is included in its response back to the original caller.

This web API uses the following:

> _ [Microsoft Authentication Library (MSAL)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/msal-overview)

Reviewer 2: Did you want to link to the ASP.NET core version instead of the MSAL conceptual home?

```suggestion
_ [Microsoft Authentication Library (MSAL)](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/msal-overview)
```

Author: thanks for asking @ckittel, I think I really wanted to link that specific doc. Im proposing another alternative in here in case this is preferable: https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-dotnet.

partially done | addressed from [896f3](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/ms-identity-docs-code-dotnet/pull/22/commits/896f3495aafd1e0519a58cad4a31174ea82b1223)

Reviewer 2: the latter might be good, since that's literally the item you're using here.  We typically don't really list stuff in this section like this.  So all kinda new to me to see a list like this with one item.  Can you just bake these links in as inline links in some text around it to that you don't need to dedicate vertical space for it?

Author: using latter as that is the preference + inlined it @ckittel 

done | addressed from [1439c](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/ms-identity-docs-code-dotnet/pull/22/commits/1439c86393d2934a295fc01e7a76f384e2f9f6cf) and [1eef38](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/ms-identity-docs-code-dotnet/pull/22/commits/1eef389e5d821487490e725eb320206885a04a7b)

Reviewer 2: Simple, good choice.
